Fix eager evaluation in ConcurrentDictionary.GetOrAdd calls and add r… (#5950)
AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet: .github/copilot-instructions.md

---

# Code Review Rules

## ConcurrentDictionary.GetOrAdd — always use the factory delegate overload

`ConcurrentDictionary.GetOrAdd(key, value)` **eagerly evaluates** the second argument before checking the dictionary. If the value is a constructor call or method invocation (e.g., `new HttpClient(...)`, `CreateFoo()`), a new object is created and discarded on every cache hit.

**Bad** — object created on every call, discarded on cache hit:
```csharp
pool.GetOrAdd(key, new ExpensiveObject());
pool.GetOrAdd(key, CreateExpensiveObject());
```

**Good** — factory lambda only runs on cache miss:
```csharp
pool.GetOrAdd(key, _ => new ExpensiveObject());
pool.GetOrAdd(key, _ => CreateExpensiveObject());
```

> When reviewing code, flag any `GetOrAdd` call where the second argument is **not** a delegate/lambda/method group. All other usages if GetOrAdd(key, value) should be justified.

Reviewer: Typo: "usages **if** GetOrAdd" should be "usages **of** GetOrAdd".

> When reviewing code, flag any `GetOrAdd` call where the second argument is **not** a delegate/lambda/method group. The only exception is when the key is guaranteed to be unique per call (i.e., caching is not the intent).

Author: Well, even a new object can have a perf impact if it's on the hot path, and this is the hot path. How about "all usages `GetOrAdd(key, value)` should be comemnted.

> When reviewing code, flag any `GetOrAdd` call where the second argument is **not** a delegate/lambda/method group. The only exception is when the key is guaranteed to be unique per call (i.e., caching is not the intent).

Author: ```suggestion
When reviewing code, flag any `GetOrAdd` call where the second argument is **not** a delegate/lambda/method group. All other usages if GetOrAdd(key, value) should be justified.
```
